GAVIA


0. BACKGROUND

Since we started out as birdwatchers in the early 1980s, my brother
and I have tried to write down all observatione we've made - not
exactly where we saw each individual bird, but at least approximate
numbers and locations. Jonas in particular has huge stacks of
notebooks with detailed info for each excursion.

We believe it is important to not only keep track of which rare
species one has seen in a year or in a lifetime (as some of the most
decadent twitchers do) but to keep the raw data on more common species
as well. 


1. GAVIA

Gavia is the latest in a series of tool sets I've written to faciliate
writing down our observations. Before that, there was "Lanius", a
GUI-based excursion database thingy for the Commodore-Amiga.

The most important task for Gavia is to make it easy to enter data
from an excursion by picking from a full list of species (or, rather,
make it more difficult to forget entering a species).

Ironically, this major part of Gavia now consists of a handful of perl
scripts and an emacs macro - much of what's left is there to support
the old legacy, binary, broken Lanius data format. Why write a
dedicated interactive user interface when you can get an existing text
editor to do the boring stuff for you free?

Gavia is released under a BSD-style license.


2. REQUIREMENTS

You'll need a fairly complete C++ compiler, such as gcc 2.95. Gavia
uses STL heavily, and also some of the SGI extensions to STL (this is
possible to hack around).

You also need to be on a Unix-like system. Personally, I'm on a Linux
box. There are a few GNUisms in the code.

For my daily use of gavia, I rely on perl, RCS or cvs, and GNU
Emacs. You can avoid some of these depending on how you use gavia and
how much you're willing to customize the (admittedly trivial) scripts.

This piece of elisp code faciliates picking species for inclusion in
an excursion by creating a macro tied to F4:

   (fset 'gavia-mark
      [?\C-a ?\C-s ?: ?\C-m ?\C-d ?# ?\C-a down])
   (global-set-key   [f4] 'gavia-mark)

Include it somewhere in your .emacs if you want to use that particular
editor.


3. INSTALLATION

% make && make install

should be enough to compile and install gavia. The perl script used to
enter excursions (gavia_stellata) assumes there is a directory ~gavia/
where excursions are gathered, and where a template for new excursions
lives. That directory is up to you or create - either do that or hack
gavia_stellata.pl.


4. DISCLAIMER

You may have noted already that this isn't a ready solution. Correct -
it's a hack that does what I need it to do and little else.

One /major/ weakness - which has historical reasons - is that the
accepted bird species are fixed at compile time, and they are
identified by their name /in Swedish/. You can hack gavia to hide this
fact if you care to; I'll probably never get around to it.


Jörgen Grahn <jgrahn@algonet.se>

$Id: README,v 1.2 2000-12-17 14:49:24 grahn Exp $
$Name:  $
