.\" $Id: gavia_cat.1,v 1.12 2002-08-11 20:43:05 grahn Exp $
.\" 
.\"
.TH gavia_cat 1 "AUG 2002" Gavia "User Manuals"
.SH "NAME"
gavia_cat \- concatenate and translate Gavia books
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B gavia_cat [\-bgthlmrv] [\-cxs]
.I bookfile
.B ...
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B gavia_cat
concatenates one or more Gavia book files
given on the command line.
A dash '\-' denotes standard input.
Standard input is also used if no
book files are mentioned.
The resulting aggregate book is then written to
standard output, either as a
Gavia book (i.e. binary),
as text,
as ''gab'' formatted text,
as HTML,
LaTeX2e source code,
troff source code,
or a Unix mailbox file.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.IP \-b
(default) Output as a Gavia Book.
.IP \-g
Output as ''gab'' text, which gavia_add(1) can read.
.IP \-t
Output as plain text.
.IP \-h
Output as HTML.
.IP \-l
Output as LaTeX2e source.
.IP \-m
Output as a mbox file, readable by mail user agents such as
.BR mail (1)
or
.BR mutt (1).
.IP \-r
Output as
.BR troff (1)
+
.BR tbl (1)
source.
This can then be rendered in different ways; you might for example
want to create a PostScript version using
.BR groff (1):
.br
.ft CW
groff -mm -t -Tps file > file.ps
.IP \-c
(default) Output the species according
to the "canonical" order.
To be honest, this ordering is fairly meaningless
and just an artifact of how Gavia works internally.
This option\(emand the ones below\(emis not meaningful
if the \-b option is active.
.IP \-x
Output the species according to
a generally accepted taxonomic ordering.
.IP \-s
Output the species sorted by name.
.IP \-v
Print version information and exit.
.SH "FILES"
.TP
.I lib/gavia/species
The list of supported species and their taxonomic ordering.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
The current locale settings might influence certain aspects.
.SH "BUGS"
You'd probably be better off with a set of filters that can
translate ''gab'' format into LaTeX, HTML, text et cetera,
than with all the switches described above.
.LP
Error handling and error reporting is rudimentary, at the most.
Bad file contents give unrecoverable errors.
The Gavia book format is fucked up.
.LP
Mbox output isn't MIME-encoded; some mail user agents
may be confused when encountering 8-bit characters in
mail headers and bodies.
.LP
Troff output is probably not working very well as of yet.
For example, there is no translation of national characters
into troff character input codes, so you need a troff which
understands Latin-1 \(em which probably implies GNU groff.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Jörgen Grahn <jgrahn@algonet.se>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR gavia_add (1),
.BR gavia_grep (1),
.BR gavia_sort (1),
.BR gavia_stat (1)
