.ss 12 0
.de BP
.IP \\fB\\$*
..
.TH gavia_grep 1 "JUN 2013" Gavia "User Manuals"
.
.SH "NAME"
gavia_grep \- filter Gavia files through regular expression
.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B gavia_grep
.RB [ \-v ]
.I pattern
.I file
.B ...
.br
.B gavia_grep --version
.br
.B gavia_grep --help
.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B gavia_grep
filters one or more Gavia ''gab'' files
\- see
.BR gavia (5)
\-
given on the command line.
A dash '\-' denotes standard input.
Standard input is also used if no
book files are mentioned.
The result is written to standard output.
.PP
Any excursion matching the
.BR regex (7)
regular expression
.I pattern
is included, unless
.B \-v
is given and the matching excursions are instead excluded.
.PP
The match is applied to the excursion text:
.IR place ,
.IR date ,
.IR time ,
.IR weather ,
.IR observers ,
.I command
and other headers;
species
.IR name ,
.I numbers
and
.IR comment .
.PP
Species names aren't matched only verbatim, but also against
synonyms and scientific names.
For example, the pattern
.I Lanius
will match any shrike.
.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.BP \-v
Inverts handling,
so that excursions
.I not
matching the pattern are passed through.
.BP --version
Print version information and exit.
.BP --help
Print a brief help text and exit.
.
.SH "FILES"
.TP
.I lib/gavia/species
The list of supported taxa and their taxonomic ordering.
.
.SH "AUTHOR"
J\(:orgen Grahn
.IR \[fo]grahn+src@snipabacken.se\[fc] .
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR gavia (5),
.BR gavia_cat (1),
.BR gavia_sort (1),
.BR gavia_stat (1),
.BR regex (7).
