.\" $Id: gavia_focus.1,v 1.9 2008-01-03 09:38:19 grahn Exp $
.\" 
.\"
.TH gavia_focus 1 "APR 2018" Gavia "User Manuals"
.SH "NAME"
gavia_focus \- filter away species from a Gavia book
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
gavia_focus [\-v] [\-f filter]
.I file
.B ...
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
gavia_focus takes one or more files (stdin if none given) in
.BR gavia (5)
format and outputs them as-is, except for species
mentioned in a filter file (or ''blacklist'', or ''kill file'').
This may be used when quickly browsing a book, to avoid listing
common or ''trivial'' species.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.IP \-v
Invert the filter, so that it points out which species to
.I include
in the output rather than which ones to exclude.
.IP \-f\ filter
The filter file. If none is given, defaults to one of those
described below (''FILES'').
.SH "FILE FORMAT"
The filter file is a sequence of species names, one per line.
Species mentioned in this file will not be printed.
Optionally, a timerange may be specified to only exclude species
observed during parts of the year:
.IP
.ft CW
species name  mmdd-mmdd
.PP
As an example, the following lines will show the first
species only in swedish summer, while the second only is
shown in winter. The last species is never shown.
.IP
.ft CW
.nf
fj\(:allvr\(oak   1001-0331
s\(oangl\(:arka   0315-1031
tamduva
.fi
.PP
Comment lines (starting with a hash sign) may be used.
.SH "FILES"
.TP
.I ~/.gavia_focus
Personal filter file.
.TP
.I lib/gavia/focus
Global filter file; used when the personal filter file
does not exist and no filter file has been mentioned explicitly. 
.SH "NOTES"
This is a very crude way to filter away information;
.B gavia_focus
will happily throw away noteworthy things like common birds
appearing out of their normal habitat or in unusual numbers.
Use with care.
.SH "AUTHOR"
J\(:orgen Grahn <grahn+src@snipabacken.se>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR gavia (1),
.BR gavia (5)
